hello my name is Lauren green I'm an
elementary music teacher near Austin
Texas I've been playing the clarinet for
15 years and teach private clarinet
lessons as well and today I'm going to
tell you how to begin to play the
clarinet so first we're going to start
with putting it together you can start
with your bell that's the very bottom
and the next piece that you take is this
large piece this is for your right hand
this cork should be well lubricated with
cork grease you twist it in and then you
have those two together the next piece
you put on is the top joint again you
need to keep that cork lubricated or it
won't go in very well so now you have
that much this is your barrel your
barrel is what connects your joints to
your mouthpiece and that goes on the top
then you have your mouthpiece a good
thing I like to do when I'm putting my
clarinet together is have my reed
already soaking in my mouth so that by
the time I get everything together is
almost ready to be played on so you put
your reed right here on the mouthpiece
making sure that it is perfectly in line
with where the hole is then you put your
ligature on and tighten it firmly the
first step to actually playing we're not
even going to push any Keys down so the
embouchure is the position of your mouth
you want to make sure that your chin is
flat that your throat is open that your
tongue is high and that your mouth is
completely sealed around the mouthpiece
if you have air leaking out the sides
it'll make a sound and your air won't be
going through your clarinet which means
you won't be making a sound it's going
to take some getting used to to make
that reed vibrate you have to start with
a pretty soft Reed if you're a beginner
a two and a half to three and if it's
still not vibrating just keep working at
it and blow very hard
with your abdomen until you get the air
to come out the air should be warm and
it should be moist if you can put your
hand in front of your mouth and make hot
air come out that is the proper air if
it's cold you need to open your throat
more like other woodwind instruments
your left hand goes on top you start by
putting your left thumb on this back key
leave this one alone for now and then
your left pointer finger goes on the top
key right there you just walk it down
covering those holes
now if these holes aren't sealed you're
not going to make a sound you can
continue down but the first thing I
would do this is your proper hand
position and you can find fingering
charts online but first I would just try
to again play without any keys covered
working on that and then adding one
finger at a time as you go down so
that's how to begin to play the clarinet